[04/24/2026]
Lawrence and Peter ran a series of experiments with different amounts of material that we want to use for induction heating. 
The temperature measurements are located in [Induction experimental data.md](https://github.com/PubInv/Biochar-Toilet/blob/main/Induction experimental data.md)
Interestng results were that we didn't hit the curie temperature of the carbon steel, as evident by the thermal readings and the presence of a magnetic field. Based on
color charts for steel and our measurements, we estimate we got up between 900-1000 degrees F for the pure ball bearing. 

Quick Observations
The Magnetite Advantage: At 5 grams, the Magnetite is significantly more efficient at converting the induction field to heat compared to the same mass of Carbon Steel bearings (reaching 740°F vs 130°F in 60 seconds).

Volume vs. Mass: The Carbon Steel only starts to compete in peak temperature (940°F) when the volume is matched to the Magnetite, suggesting density and surface area are playing a massive role here. 
It is believed that this is due to eddie currents, which seem to favor lengh wise induced current when the material is making good electrical contact. 

The "Mixed" Thermal Inertia: The mixture shows a much more gradual and staggered climb, likely due to the Bentonite acting as a thermal buffer or insulator between the active heating elements.
Further adjustments to the mix will need to be determined to balance thermal heat transfer, rapid heating, and options for agitation. 

Peter will drill out the holes for the induction heater next week, and we are continuing to debug issues with the higher power induction coil. 
Right now we suspect the issue may be the spacing on the coils (currently 10-30mm), but it's interesting to note that coil geometry has a large effect on heating potential. 
We may need to accelerate our understanding of coil geometry and options for focusing the magnetic field towards the center of the crucible.




[03/27/2026]
Lawrence and Peter ran an experiment attempting to char cheese puffs. The cheese puffs are about 8mm in diameter, 
and there were about 6 of them in the crucible, moistened with water and coated in mostly magnetite with some kitty litter.
The induction coil system had been running for about 5 minutes when the mixture began smoking. The max temperature attained was 833F before the team put a cap on the 
system at the 9 minute marker (an arbitrary amount of time).

Once the system had cooled to safe handling temperature, the team opened the lid to discover the results were good. All but one of the cheese puffs all charred all 
the way through. This experiment was conducted in the open air (oxygen-rich) so pyrolysis was not as efficient, but there WAS evidence of some pyrolysis happeneing, 
due to the residue on the crucible cap.

The total powered time of this experiment was about 16 minutes. 





[03/20/2026]
Lawrence and Peter had identified and (Lawrence) updated the project BOM with the bulkhead fittings and hardware required for the induction coil 
system to insulate the energized copper from the aluminum pot, as well as to seal the fitting and lock the insulated sleeve in place using a 
furrel nut and insolating washer. They also identified 440 stainless steel shot 2mm as being an excellent starting point for mixing with
the magnetite.

Peter had digitized the bounding box of the induction module (for clearance) and the model of the 1" air line's bulkhead fitting;
he also imported STEP files of the PSU and T-Pipe fitting. The purpose for this is to create proper mounting systems contining the 
components to make a solid, safe, transportable unit for demonstration and experimentation.






[03/06/2026]
Lawrence and Peter were able to fill a crucible with 100% magnetite and a cup of water, then using only the induction coil 
system, was able to evaporate all of the water in less than 8 minutes, starting with the sample at room temperature.
Next steps towards biochar include testing different ratios of kitty litter (bentonite), magnetite, and mild steel shot to not only
evaporate water quickly, but to char an organic sample. 
Data will be collected then analyzed via spreadsheet graph comparison.
